So now, so that is really about the body. And now we go to the third one. Third one is the
kind for the purification of the creation. So now this is the purification practices.
And again, this is a powerful practices and is the purification practices and it is purification
practices, together with it also accumulate the merit, both together. The fourth is purification
practices. So now what we purify? We purify all our obscurations, negativities, and we
purify negativities and obscurations also as well as all the living beings too, because
our body together. Again, to do the body purification in the teaching mentioned, we do the bodhis
attva,
the relative bodhisattva. Without the relative bodhisattva, the purification, again, practices
well won't walk exactly as we want it. We have to combine the bodhisattva with this
relative bodhisattva. And not just only relative bodhisattva, we have to have the devotions,
confidence, or that means rafuj, being closeness connections to the Bodhidharma Sanghas or the
Bodhavajasattvas and then bodhisattvas. And generally in the teaching said, when you have
the bodhisattva, bodhisattva well clear with obscurations. Bodhisattva will purify all
our heavy karmas, in the karmas too, really in the teaching said. For that reason, great
master Shanti Deva said, "Moment you develop the bodhisattva in heart and mind, that moment
you start to purify our negativities, karmas. Moment we will develop the bodhisattva in
our heart and mind, that moment, the power of the bodhisattva is like fire, that will
burn the heavy load of the collected karmas, bad karmas. Therefore, bodhisattva itself is
so powerful. It really, when we have the bodhisattva, each time we develop the bodhisattva, it
clears
with karma and it clear purify the karma. Then what? It accommodates the merit, same
time, regaining, we reversing. Until we meet the teaching, teaching of the greatest teacher
of bodhisattva community, we're more accommodating, maybe heavy karmas all the time. By time we
met as the teaching, teaching greatest teachers and heard the teaching and we apply that teaching,
that moment we start really to purify and burning the karmas, heavy karmas, all that.
So we purify that. And now how many days of obscurations? Generally there's minutes that
we heard always. So again, I highlight that in the mind to all of us. Those karmas are
generally named as, I mean, obscurations, how many obscurations? Two obscurations. Those
are known as the emotion obscurations and the teaching said knowledge obscurations.
So two obscurations. What is this emotion obscurations? Emotions obscurations is a
great teacher of bodhisattva community, the fourth teaching, cause of suffering truth.
That is emotion obscurations, cause of suffering truth. Cause of suffering truth, they can
divide it into two, emotions and karma. And in the teaching they said le nu mung wa. Le
nu mung wa is the cause of suffering truth. So our cause of suffering, all the beings
of suffering, cause of suffering truth is karma and emotions. Who caused the karma? By
the emotions. Emotion is what? It's three principal things, ignorance, attachment, anger. Where
did that come from? From mind. Mind created negative emotions. How that happened? As like
dark cloud in the sky. Even though it's not really connected to the mind, mind very created
that. Such as like cloud in the sky. Cloud is not connected to the sky, but it appeared
in the sky. The rain cloud, thunder clouds, all that. That appeared. By that happening
that and then it created the karma, the action. Karma is the Sanskrit word which means action.
That not emotion and not just state like without doing anything. It did activities. Active.
And among the three emotions, who is the prone runner? Attachment and anger are the prone
runner. Ignorant is behind the scene. Ignorant is cause of the attachment. Ignorant is cause
of the anger. What that attachment anger, if it gives another name in the practice of
repeat instruction, hope and fear. Hope is what we like to hope in. It's attachment we
like to have. Fear is scared, going to lose, let it be frightening. Fearful. Then we show
that. The balls are saturated by the ignorance. Then combination is when it acted by the physically
verbally, it projected to the out. Out, then it created the trouble. It created the trouble.
It made trouble to those projected things. It made trouble to ourselves. Who gets more
trouble? According to the greatest teacher of the Buddha, Hakemuni, even we projected
to the others, others think, "Oh, I've become the winner," or "I did something." We feel
the winner. But that is tricking to our own mind. Reality, who is the loser? Jewel is
a loser. One who did is a loser. Then create the karma. Create the karma. According to
the degree of the activity, then it's called karma, light karma, medium karma, heavy loaded
karmas. According to the degree of that. Then it's not the karma, it's according to Buddhism.
The Buddha is teaching. It's not just going to happen one time, you did it because one
time it multiplies. It multiplies. In a way, we plant the seed on the ground. When we plant
the seed, we're not expecting to get one result. How many from that seed, one seed we plant,
how many results or how many crops will come from that? Karma is like that, according to
the degree of the activity. Karma, we planted where? We planted our subconsciously storehouse.
We planted that. Now we plant it. And continually, we preserve it with all other ongoing emotions.
Not just let it dry or let it go away. We continually preserving unknowingly, continually
protecting, continually looking after that in a way. Then it will mature. Whether this
lifetime or according to the teaching, maybe after many lifetimes, it will mature. Not just
then we need to mature, it's not just the only one time. Many times can happen. Again
and again. That's the way the system of the karma in the teaching said, really goes. Of
course. So that is known as the karma obscuration, karmic obscurations. Then there is no obsc
uration,
emotion obscurations. Emotion obscuration is source. Then expanded these three emotions,
expanded and what are those? Jealous. So the arrogance. And then excitedness, doubt, and
hesitation. All that target expanded in the gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni said there
is 20 sub-emotions. Sub-emotions. We can always count five emotions, six emotions.
And they all target 20 sub-emotions from the root emotions. All that, those. All these
emotions. Those if you like to look those things in the Abhidharma teaching, or it is
translated in the Suno line of Shambhala publication, those are known as knowledge, get the
knowledge,
I think by great master Maharaja teaching. So if you like to look those, it's all listed
there. There. There. All. Yeah. That is all. So those are known as karma obscurations and
emotion obscurations. And then knowledge obscurations. Knowledge obscuration is attachment. Greedy,
greedy. Attachment and clinging, sorry. Attachment and clinging. That is deep down. More stronger
than the anger and those anger and attachment. It's very deep according to teaching. Teaching
is really very deep. Clinging is very, very deep. And then clinging to many things. Clinging
as a poem. Clinging, clinging on the perceptions. Clinging on the conceptions. Clinging, clinging
on the consciousness. And then all those varieties of the clinging of the me and the clinging
of the others. Clinging of the mind. Clinging of the others. And so many different clingings
and ideas. And toward my way of thinking that in my belief, this and my belief that I mean
all those so many clingings. This is the one approach. Reality is all mind. There's nothing
externally independent existing outside. We can say, oh, and hide this and that. All creation
of the mind is all clinging according to the teaching. Clinging is publication. We're holding
up. Holding, holding, and then become trained. And then with that, when we hold, not just
we hold, we're trying to keep up that, that what we believe. I like to do that and make
all the activities, the karma activities. Or maybe sometimes the good activities and
bad activities and then create ongoing activities. Those are all known as obscurations. Obsc
urations.
Obscurations and negativities and defilements. All those names used for that. And now we're
going to clear with that. Clean with this. And then also according to the Buddha's teaching,
those are what? There's two obscurations in Buddhism. Those are known as natural obscurations
on natural negatives, public negatives. I mean, I'm translating like that. And of course
you can look that. Natural negatives, it is 10 non-virtues that you all know. Three by
the body, four by the speech, and three by the mind, all together, 10 non-virtues, 10
negativities. And 10 virtues, opposite of those, 10 virtues. So these those are known
as natural, natural. Because why is it natural? This is not just something that connected
with any religions. But every country identify it and recognize those are negatives. Maybe
there's the last one, three mental state had slightly different that, but otherwise everyone
really believes those are not good. Everyone. So those are the universally proved negativities.
And then there's publicating negativities. And who's publicating? That is a gracious
teacher, Buddha Hekamuni, to preserve the morality, in tragedies and attentiveness of
the practice of meditation, Buddha Ghee, many guidelines. And those are known as publicated
because in a way Buddha publicated. And when you do also do those, those are then known
as vows. Vows, in Vinaya vow, or rules, the vow, bodhijata vows, Vaidhyana teachings, samayas,
those are slightly different names, but reality is just basically the similar things. So those
are all, I don't know, when we are against it, or when we can't really go over that or
beyond that, then it becomes negativities. Whatever it is, then it will again become
obstetricians. So now we're going to purify that, purify it with the proper techniques
of the Vaidhyana teaching, and particularly Dzokhi teachings. Dzokhi teaching, and that
is, then is here clearly mentioned, and we go over this.